---
layout: default
permalink: /blogs/2025-10-15-gui/
title: "The Evolving Face of GUI (II) – Computer-Use Agents"
date: 2025-10-15
excerpt: "Summary of recent GUI agent works and insights on training, evaluation, and design patterns"
tags: [gui, end-to-end training, multi-agent system]
author_profile: false
---

<div class="blog-post" markdown="1">

# The Evolving Face of GUI (II) – Computer-Use Agents

Research on GUI agents has advanced rapidly since the release of early grounding datasets such as the ScreenSpot series, with these benchmarks reaching saturation within a remarkably short time. However, despite the rapid advancement of GUI grounding techniques, current approaches often fail to capture the inherent complexity of real-world GUI interactions, reducing them to oversimplified element grounding tasks. This limitation has prompted a fundamental shift in focus—from grounding individual elements to developing end-to-end agents capable of performing complete GUI-based tasks. In practical scenarios, comprehensive computer-use tasks demand a multifaceted approach that extends far beyond simple grounding, encompassing long-horizon planning, sophisticated action space modeling, and multi-step reasoning. To address these complex requirements, robust systems may incorporate memory modules for context retention across interactions and leverage API integration to enhance operational efficiency, marking a evolution from isolated grounding capabilities to holistic task execution frameworks.

## Datasets and Benchmarks
OS-genesis
[PC-Agent-E](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13909)
WindowsAgentArena
OS-World
AndroidWorld

## E2E Training
There are many representative works featuring different methods to model the trajactory and train the agents. OS-Atlas Aguvis and UI-TARS uses continual training and SFT/DPO...
UI-S1, UI-TARS2 reinforcement learning
GUI-OWL
OpenCUA: Open Foundations for Computer-Use Agents

## Multi-agent System
AgentCPM
MobiAgent
...

## Hybrid structure
Mobile-agent-v3

## Challenges in Current Research
- **Generalization:** Is there training method to generalize gui agents to those unseen but similar apps?
- **Long-term Horizon Planning:**
- **Safety and Robustness:** Prompt injection of ads and Pop-ups on webpage. Methods for reverting to the previous state upon an invalid action.
- **Efficiency and Memory:** Query embedding similarity might be simplified, and quantization or smaller model for local inference is also necessary. Use memory for personalized Experience/self-reflection
- **Proactivity:** It is an under-researched problem... 

</div>